How to create AWS lambdas using container images (#24307)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/amazon-lambda.adoc

CMD ["io.quarkus.amazon.lambda.runtime.QuarkusStreamHandler::handleRequest"]
----

=== Native executable container image

To create a lambda container image that uses the native executable we'll need to do things a little differently. In this case, we won't need to use the `java:11` base image from AWS but instead we'll use a special image that assumes that the runtime environment for the lambda is provided. The example below creates such a container. It assumes that a Maven build has been executed (such as `mvn package -Dnative=true`) and has generated the native binary into the `target/` directory. The binary needs to be named `bootstrap` and be placed in `/var/runtime/`:

[source,Dockerfile]
----
FROM  public.ecr.aws/lambda/provided

ADD target/my-service-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-runner /var/runtime/bootstrap
RUN chmod ugo+x /var/runtime/bootstrap

CMD ["io.quarkus.amazon.lambda.runtime.QuarkusStreamHandler::handleRequest"]
----

=== Deploying a container image lambda

Although it is out of scope for this guide, you can see how the above container images can be built and deployed to AWS in the instructions below, using the `docker` and `aws` command line tools.

> 

Reviewer: You can remove the part where you say that it's out of the scope of the guide. Guides aim to be as complete as possible so when you follow it, you end up with a working application. 
So in case of function/lambda, it is in the scope of the guide to deploy it to the function provider.

Author: Done

    => => exporting layers                   0.0s
    => => writing image sha256:[SOME SHA]    0.0s

# 2. Create an ECR repository in the users AWS account

aws ecr create-repository --repository-name my/test/quarkus-lambda

# 3. Tag the image using your ECR registry information

docker tag [SOME SHA] [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com/my/test/quarkus-lambda:v1

# 4. Log docker into your ECR registry and push the docker image to it

aws ecr get-login-password --region region | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com
docker push [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com/my/test/quarkus-lambda:v1

# 5. Create the AWS lambda function with the AWS CLI tool, referencing the image you uploaded previously (assumes that a role exists that can be used to run the lambda)
 aws lambda create-function --function-name my-test-quarkus-lambda-function --package-type Image --code ImageUri=[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com/my/test/quarkus-lambda:v1 --role arn:aws:iam::[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID]:role/[SOME ROLE]

> ----

Author: @gastaldi you mean that it should be it's own code block? This last part is a command run in the shell, so as such it's a part of the code block at least.

> ----

Reviewer 2: I mean to have each step as an Asciidoc paragraph and a `[source]` bash for each command to be run in the shell

> ----

Author: Allright.. I'll change the structure here.

> ----

Author: @gastaldi you okay with the way this is set up now?

1 - Build the Docker image:

[source,bash]
----
# Assuming we are located in the root directory of the project and created a Dockerfile there
docker build .
   [output omitted]
    => exporting to image                    0.0s
    => => exporting layers                   0.0s
    => => writing image sha256:[SOME SHA]    0.0s
----

2 - Create an ECR repository in the users AWS account

[source,bash]
----
aws ecr create-repository --repository-name my/test/quarkus-lambda
----

3 - Tag the image using your ECR registry information

[source,bash]
----
docker tag [SOME SHA] [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com/my/test/quarkus-lambda:v1
----

4 - Log docker into your ECR registry and push the docker image to it

[source,bash]
----
aws ecr get-login-password --region region | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com
docker push [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com/my/test/quarkus-lambda:v1
----

> 5 - Create the AWS lambda function with the AWS CLI tool, referencing the image you uploaded previously (assumes that a role exists that can be used to run the lambda). Please note that it is not unlikely that for the JVM lambda function, the default memory limit of `128Mb` will not be enough to run the function. In that case, you can increase the memory limit when creating the function by providing the `--memory-size 256` parameter to your `aws lambda create-function` command. You can also adjust the function in the AWS console after you've created it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Create the AWS lambda function with the AWS CLI tool

Make sure you reference the image you uploaded previously (assumes that a role exists that can be used to run the lambda). Please note that it is not unlikely that for the JVM lambda function, the default memory limit of `128Mb` will not be enough to run the function. In that case, you can increase the memory limit when creating the function by providing the `--memory-size 256` parameter to your `aws lambda create-function` command. You can also adjust the function in the AWS console after you've created it.
```

ADD target/my-service-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-runner /var/runtime/bootstrap
RUN chmod ugo+x /var/runtime/bootstrap

CMD ["io.quarkus.amazon.lambda.runtime.QuarkusStreamHandler::handleRequest"]
----

=== Deploying a container image lambda

Below, you can see how the container images created above can be built and deployed to AWS using the `docker` and `aws` command line tools. These instructions work for both native and jvm container images and assume that the `aws` command line tool has been logged in.

==== Build the Docker image

[source,bash]
----
# Assuming we are located in the root directory of the project and created a Dockerfile there
docker build .
   [output omitted]
    => exporting to image                    0.0s
    => => exporting layers                   0.0s
    => => writing image sha256:[SOME SHA]    0.0s
----

==== Create an ECR repository in the users AWS account

[source,bash]
----
aws ecr create-repository --repository-name my/test/quarkus-lambda
----

==== Tag the image using your ECR registry information

[source,bash]
----
docker tag [SOME SHA] [YOUR AWS ACCOUNT ID].dkr.ecr.[YOUR AWS ACCOUNT REGION].amazonaws.com/my/test/quarkus-lambda:v1
----

> ==== Log docker into your ECR registry and push the docker image to it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Log Docker into your ECR registry and push the docker image to it
```
